that they were of any real interest to the Japanese
nation or the Japanese people. But they have tried
to join these investigations, and I think at the
present time now in CSK, which is Cooperative
Studies of the Kurashio, was an example whereby
they would like to focus their efforts in the area
of Japan. But in terms of the INPFC,
the Japanese, of course, work was done by the
Japanese Fishery Agency. And they had access to
Japanese oceanographic groups. And actually,
the fishery agency vessels did some studies. But
as this work progressed, and as we were searching
for common terminology of fronts and features and
current
nomenclature currents,
we received a great deal of cooperation from the
Japanese. And in the late 1950s, we would actually
meet in ADAC, which is in the middle of the Aleutian
Islands, and exchange data. At that time, we had a
computer aboard our ship, and we were able to give
them computer printouts. And they, of course, are
very adept at these pen and ink forms that they can
fill out. And some strategies for fishing and for
investigating environmental features in the
Aleutian area came about at these meetings in
mid-salmon season at ADAC. And we have published
two joint reports, Bulletin 13 and Bulletin 33,
which summarizes just only the top of, well, it's a
severe synthesis of 20 years' work, really, is
what it is. So we've enjoyed working with them very
much in the Aleutian area. And the Oak Bay
Laboratory has had excellent cooperation with
them in the eastern Bering Sea to the point where
the Japanese would provide the Oshiro Maru, which
is their big research vessel. This is the vessel at
the Kaido University. It's the College of
Fisheries where they would, we would send people
on board their ship and conduct joint studies
together. So I would say that it took a while to get
started, the early 50s. But by the end of the late
50s, and particularly the early 60s, it was just
absolutely a joy to work with these groups. And
part of the rationale for continuing on the salmon
studies was the fact that it was just a tremendous
international exchange of information. from an
environmental standpoint and a fishery
standpoint. So even though they couldn't decide
on the protocol to the treaty, which was an
equitable division of salmon, they felt that this
should go on. And it's only been the last few years
that the field programs have died down. The next
series of questions, I pretty well answered the
questions I had about your work that I had jotted
down. The next series of questions concern really
government service, for lack of a better word.
There is a move now to centralize all funding
agencies of oceanography under one central
agency, probably the Commerce Department,
probably NOAA. What are your feelings on that?
Well, I don't think bigger is better, and that's
what would happen if you do this. But I really feel
that a lot more progress could be made a lot sooner
if we had sort of a
division by area. Say, for example, the Arctic
studies, which say the Arctic and the Antarctic,
the Pacific studies, the Atlantic studies, and
kind of leave the Indian Ocean to fend for itself at
this time because we've spent a lot of money there.
And then there are other people now that are
capable of studying it. I really would like to see a
center that is responsive to the Pacific Ocean as
an entity.
I don't think that this one group would satisfy
that. I would rather see it broken down into four or
five groups by area rather than one single
discipline center. In some respects, I think that
the National Oceanographic Data Center is an
example of The concept of having data available
and the concept of insisting that people that are
spending government money acquiring data turn it
in in a certain established format to a central
repository is fine. But it just becomes
monolithic to handle this. And I think it could be
better done on this. One suggestion I would have
instead of a National Oceanographic Data Center,
they had one on the east coast for the Atlantic and
one on the west coast for the Pacific. And I think it
would accelerate the studies. It would avoid a lot
of duplication and provide a focus for what should
be done in these areas. Nature of grant giving. At
one time, certainly very early in your career,
most grant giving was sort of done by ONR and
intended to be sort of divided between research of
R&D based upon peer research and mission oriented
research. Since then, there was a lot of criticism
of that for various reasons. And since then too
now, the grant giving having gone out of NSF and
what have you, various government contracts
types.
The arguments go two ways. One, that in ONR there
was too much in-house review. That is, the
government was guilty of that. And secondly, that
now that they're afraid the same thing is
happening in government contracts, and that the
NSF way of reviewing each grant separately and so
forth is better. Now, that sort of jumbled
sentence, if you can make any sense out of it, I'd
like some comments on that. What do you think about
in-house reviews? How do you see your role as a
reviewer out of house since you make comments on
NSF grants? What do you think about the present
funding structure, and how would you change it?
Well, I'm really not sure what you're driving at,
but I know sort of peripherally this business of
peer review versus in-house and out-house
reviews.
My own feeling is, and I think that's of a lot of
people, that this becomes kind of clannish or kind
of cliquish. And there are many indications of
this. I think there are still strong feelings in
the community that probably people aren't going
to voice that, say, Woods Hole and Scripps have too
much of a say in what is done in terms of academic
funding. It's kind of hard to break into this. They
can become quite hostile. And I don't know whether
this is subjective or not, in the sense that
because the ocean is so large and because it is so
complex, it's almost easy to be negative on any
proposal.
You know that this person, even if he has some
experience is probably not going to be able to
answer his question satisfactorily because of
this thing. The whole ocean is a turbulent regime,
and it just requires tremendous resources to
study it and to monitor it. And I think that any
reviewer can, you know, on any given day say yes to
something he said no to the other day. So this
becomes sort of a clannish group that your
friend's projects are approved. And I don't think
you asked that specifically, but I think that's
the heart of it. And although NSF tries to change
their desks quite frequently, really they're
still bringing in people from the same places to
sit at the desks. And all I can say is, on the whole, I
think the money is distributed fairly well. But I
think there are a few people that have too much of
the lion's share of it. Well, that's not exactly
what I was answering, but that's a good enough
answer. That certainly explains what I think we
need to know about it. Also now, a controversy is
raging, beginning with the idea of the 200-mile
limit, on where should oceanography work. Should
it move back towards the continental shelves,
where most of the species exist? and how the
200-mile limits will affect both fishing and
oceanographic research. So how about some
comments on that?
I don't think that oceanography should retreat to
200 miles because if there's anything that we
learned, it's that there is continuity
throughout the whole world oceans. And if you
limit yourself to just sort of a coastal study,
your time frame is so short. You're able to measure
and observe what's there, but you have no way of
ascertaining how it's going to change in the next
week or even the next month until you know
something upstream and we know. Of course, on this
coast, everything out is. We have a unique onshore
flow here. So I think that's one of the fallacies of
saying, well, convenient to work on the coast, we
have good visibility. If we put our ships on the
coast and the ground fisheries are concentrated
on the coast, let's study it. I can't subscribe to
the fact that we just give up the open ocean studies
and come into the coast. I think we should have a
total ocean study. And given a total ocean study,
at that point, we can concentrate within the 200
miles. Now, I think what will happen is that we're
going to find
just I think even oceanographers are going to be
surprised at the complexity of flow within the
200-mile regime. We all have a tendency to
simplify, and sometimes the data only permits you
a simple picture of what's going on. And I envision
once the 200-mile limit is that these fisheries
councils are devoting their efforts to. Once the
200-mile
regime is clarified as to the kinds and numbers of
fish that are there that are going to be
commercial fish that are going to be caught either
by foreign nations or our nations, that there will
be another U.N. cry such as the one in the 50s to do
the environmental measurements that will
provide insight into why they are moving as they do
and into a predictive regime. And so I guess that's
my best answer, that I think we still have to deal
with the oceans as a total concept and that we
should concentrate. but not to the exclusion of
offshore, and when we do, we'll find the time and
space scales that are necessary to really pin down
what's going on in the coastal areas, surprising
to everyone. Do you think the 200-mile limit will
hurt American fishermen? Well, of course, that's
a loaded question in a fishery center because it
does hurt some and not hurt others, but I, as an
individual, am very... I'm very pleased that we
have established this notion of the
responsibility and the protection of this. It's a
little grander than the scheme I proposed 10 years
ago. I proposed to Dr. McHugh, who is now at
Sunnybrook, and he was director of research, that
the fishery should be responsible for the
continental shelf and what happens to it, in other
words, out to the shelf. At this time, you know, we
had three miles that was not necessarily ascribed
to fisheries. My concept was that the National
Fisheries Service should be responsible for the
environment, for the protection of it, and to
obtain information on it. And actually, at the
time, he felt this was a good idea, but it was
something that passed in the night. And so now we
have 200 miles.
I think we have a very interesting, perhaps 10 or 20
years ahead, to pin down these swirls and eddies
that pass through this 200-mile zone that are
going to affect the fisheries. As you look at a
coastal fishery, most of these are ground
fisheries, and their guideposts, their pathways
are oriented to the bottom. But I still think
that... These pulses that come from the ocean
regimes have a great deal to do as to how they move on
the bottom. And we'll find that out in the future.
In terms of technology, what sorts of things do you
think that oceanography most needs to advance the
discipline? What sort of inventions would you
like to have most?
Well, I really haven't given any specific thought
to that because I don't think we've exploited the
equipment that we have. What we need is precise
measurement of a large area of the ocean surface. I
should have said area, but of course it's
three-dimensional. We need to know the
conditions from the surface to bottom and how they
change. And we have the equipment for that, with
moored buoys, with buoys with releases, with
buoys that can be tracked by satellite. Really,
the question is, do we want to spend the money for
it? And if you remember these buoy plans that came
up, I think they were 500 or 1,000 buoys off our
coast, and people felt they would be hazards to
navigation and what have you. I was for that. I
think that's
where we have to go. I don't know of any other
instrument you could ask for, including
satellites, that would give you the information
that would come from these buoys of rays. I think
they'll come eventually, but what form they'll
take, I haven't given any other thought to.
in terms of advice to young oceanographers, may we
say. What sort of advice would you give one? What
discipline should he enter? Like, for example,
nuclear engineering was probably the hot, I
suppose, oceanographic device in the 1960s.
What's going to be at the 1970s?
Well, if you're looking for a key word, I think
obviously the key word, and these key words come
every three to five years, I think the present key
word is climate. And I don't think there is another
one beyond climate. And as you think of climate,
the ocean is inextricably linked with climate.
And we haven't even begun to study this aspect.
There are several programs. But air-sea
interaction is a word that people have kicked
around for 20 or 30 years, and yet we still don't
have a good handle on this. And so I would say that
ocean studies will continue under the guise of
climate, which has an effect on agriculture. It
has built into it an association with meteorology
and what have you. And I think it's sort of a good
umbrella to deal with and an important area
of study.
As far as what information would you give to
somebody studying oceanography,
it's really
It's up to the individual, I think. I don't think
you can give anybody any real instruction. You
have really
an interest in something or you don't. And if you
have the interest in it, you associate it with it as
sort of an all-consuming drive to study it and work
with it. And I think if you have it, then
intuitively you will find the area of the ocean.
And certainly there are many facets to it where you
can devote this energy to it. I'm a little
concerned about people that recruit people to
study the ocean. I don't think that that's
necessary.
The thing that I would tell someone that wanted to
get into it is that it is perhaps sort of trite in the
sense that it's a new frontier. And it's not really
a new frontier. The oceans have been around a long
time. But we know so little about them that any
contribution is going to be recorded and people
will lean on and build on. And I don't think we're
going to understand the oceans to the degree that
we want to, much less the degree we need to for many,
many decades. And so it's an exciting period for
someone who wants to devote their life to a study.
It isn't something that's going to dry up and be old
hat in 10 or 20 years. The necessity of integrating
this, the necessity of understanding all the
forces,
We're really pioneers. I really think if someone
could look ahead 100 years from now, that even the
people that are coming into the field now will
really still be considered pioneers, and that
they will still be studying the oceans for a long
time to come. And that should be, if someone really
is interested in it, that should be enough
incentive to really let them build a career on it.
Have you ever had any regrets about choosing
government service rather than the academic
world? Not a bit. Not really. They both have their
drawbacks, and it's kind of hard to put me on the
spot where so many people are going to read this.
But
I think that... Government can become very
restrictive. I think that I've been fortunate to
live in a period where we've sort of been
developing our own guidelines. In other words,
the fishery is so vague, the ocean is so vague, that
we've had a great deal of latitude within budget
limitations to study just this myriad of
questions that we have. I really can't say whether
the next 10 or 20 years that this freedom will still
exist. In fact, I'm asking for some reduction in it
when I ask for it. integrated studies, or at least
people working together. You lose freedom when
you do that. But no, I've seriously considered
teaching. In fact, Dr. Fleming felt I would be very
good at it, and I did too. But
I've been very, very pleased with my choice.
Now,
the next series of questions, if you should like,
are what we call predictive questions, which
always puts a scientist and a historian on the
spot, since neither of us ever like to do that.
Miraculture and aquaculture. Will it be
successful? Will it not be successful? Are you
optimistic? Are you not optimistic? In what
direction will it go in?
Well, it doesn't really behoove me to answer that
because this is
kind of a troubled area in the National Marine
Fisheries Service now. I think that all I can say
about it is that it is a high-risk venture and
always will be. I think there are opportunities
for considerable profit. In a high-risk
industry, there are opportunities for somebody
really to lose money. I personally love
shellfish because of the diet of fish in World War
II that was subjected to or given to midshipmen. I
really find that my fish diet is limited, but my
shellfish one is a preferable diet for me. In fact,
lobster to me is ambrosia. There's nothing more.
The biggest steak in the world. I could pass up very
easily the most tasty one for a lobster. That's
what I consider really elegant. And yet I must
admit that aquaculture using purified or
sewerage or perhaps heated waters from a
radioactive effluent or something I'm not so sure
my palate would respond the same to that, an
organism raised in captivity versus the one that
I'm used to. And I think it's subjective, but it
still would pose a problem for me. Well, you
actually hinted at it. What about pollution in the
oceans? What do you feel like is the major danger?
How great is the danger in terms of pollution?
Clearly, the sea is not dying, despite what
Jacques Cousteau says. And what kind of control
should there be? I would answer it. I'm pretty much
joined with your initial sentiments that I think
that Cousteau is an alarmist. But I think there's a
role for someone that wants to do that today.
because of these alarms that this word is getting
to people who really have never considered the
ocean before. They live inland. They don't see it.
They don't travel on it. To them, it's something
that is just there in geography. And so he's
getting a lot of support, and I applaud him for it.
And I see a long-term difficulty without some
restraints. But I really feel that man... will
impose restraints where and when they are needed.
And I have no fear, as you say, of a polluted ocean.
Tankers are a short-term phenomenon. Who knows?
Most of the oil reserves we have are 20 or 30 years.
And this is just a passing phase in terms of oceans.
I am concerned about the long term. the sinking of
radioactive waste. I think that's a terrible
mistake. But I don't know. I have to put it in the
proper focus. And everybody says the oil is
polluted. If you get in a raft and you find garbage
in the ocean, well, you have to consider in World
War II, with the limited shipping we had, there was
great restraint on dumping garbage over the sides
so that the U-boat might find the convoy had been
through. If we really went to that extreme in those
days, there must have been garbage in the ocean
too. It's kind of inconceivable that we went to
such great efforts not to dump anything of
anything over the side in the middle of a huge ocean
thousands of miles across that a U-boat would find
it or would track trails. So I think, with the
cautions and the restraints that have been put on
the tankers, that perhaps we are not polluting the
oceans any more than was done by the large shipping
with utter abandon, say, in the 30s and 40s, when
literally they cleaned ship outside the harbor.
They literally piled stuff up on decks. The minute
they could drop the pilot, they would dump it.
So as an oceanographer, I'm concerned as to what
could happen, but I'm not on the alarmist team at
this point. Are there any, well, beside
radioactive waste, are there any particular
types of things that you're worried about,
particularly in terms of the relationship to
salmon, which you know a great deal about, any type
of pollutants which affect animal life in the
city?
Well, all I can say is, of course, man has the
potential to spoil the ocean. But I
just think that regulations will come along by
people that are aware of the contamination that
comes along. By that, I'm saying we don't need a
multimillion or billion dollar
monitoring program to guard against ocean
pollution. If we're going to pollute it, we know
the people are either carrying it to sea or they're
dumping it in the rivers. And I think that the
cleanup that has been started will suffice. I hope
I'm not proven wrong. But that would be my feel.
Good enough. Now, these next series of questions
are sort of historic interest questions. What
probably single discovery in oceanography,
let's say in the last 20 years, surprised you the
most? What do you think was the most important
discovery as far as oceanographers were
concerned?
Well, in terms of there are various phases. I think
the plate theories are some of the more
interesting ones that have come along. This
finding of heated thermal plumes at death of the
Galapagos Islands and in the Red Sea, we've always
considered that these could exist. I think these
are interesting, but I don't think that these are
purely observational things.
I find that the most exciting thing that's
happened in the last 20 years is really the ability
to simulate some of the complex phenomena in the
huge computer. But although I am interested and
intrigued by this, I'm also somewhat
disappointed in the sense that it looks like
something that people are going to play with for
another 20 years. My feeling is that
here again, coordination is greatly needed. I
think everybody at a university today is
compelled to deal with a computer problem, to deal
with some kind of a model. And it's inconceivable
that we need all of these people building all of
these little finite models. And I think there's a
tremendous waste of effort and time in that. And I
would like to see...
some real coordination here again.
So, you know, excuse the interruption, but I think
that has been the most interesting, but I think
they have such a long way to go. Because we know the
meteorologists have tried this for years, and
they still can't forecast more than a few days. And
although the ocean is more sluggish and people
hope for more accurate results from the same types
of models. I still think the complexity in the
ocean is a long way away, even with the present
models that we, you know, defining the complexity
that we need in terms of fishery, specifically, is
a long way away. So that would be my comment.